# «Visualization of literary techniques in Anna Karenina film adaptations»

This code is an essential part of my MA thesis, which was dedicated to the literary techniques’ reproduction in film adaptations of "Anna Karenina".

The problem of the fiction *"translation"* from verbal language into the language of cinema was being relevant throughout the 20th century. The most structured translation model was formulated in the 1970s by the literary critic and film semioticist Yu.M. Lotman, who wrote about the existence of a special *"system of equivalences"* that allows transforming a literary text into a visual form. The main goal of my research was the reconstruction of the *"system of equivalences"* (proposed by Lotman) for different film adaptations with the aid of statistical methods.

I used computer vision technologies as tools for working with visual material. In particular, the study of **Tolstoy's technique of repetition and parallelism of plots** was carried out using the VGG16 convolutional neural network, the initial task of which is to classify images in accordance with the objects shown on them. As a result of using this technology, I managed to cluster film frames according to which compositional patterns are used in them, as well as to trace the intensity of repetitions within the cinema narrative.

Close-up analysis, which could potentially convey **Tolstoy's attention to detail and his desire to show the characters from different angles**, was implemented using face recognition technology. Thanks to this, I could calculate the area allotted in the frame for the image of the face, as well as investigate the frequency of directors turning to close-ups, the purpose of which, first of all, is to convey the emotions of the characters.

Finally, I analyzed the thematic and lexical affinity of the novel's text and subtitles to the 1967 film. The choice of these subtitles was motivated by the fact that there are no subtitles for domestic serials. In addition, there is no sense to compare Tolstoy's text with subtitles of foreign films, since they represent a translation of the original text, and the structures of the Russian and English languages are fundamentally different. As a result, I found out what themes were common for the film and the novel, as well as how similar the text of the screenplay was to the artistic source.
